feature: datasource for virtual machines [issue 196] (#498)
hashicorp/packer-plugin-vsphere: docs/datasources/virtual_machine.mdx

---
modeline: |
  vim: set ft=pandoc:
description: |

>   This datasource is able to get information about existing virtual machines from vSphere

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  This data source retrieves information about existing virtual machines from vSphere.
```

  and return name of one virtual machine that matches all specified filters. This virtual

>   machine can later be used in the vSphere Clone builder to select template.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  machine can be used in the vSphere Clone builder to select a template.
```

> page_title: vSphere VM - Datasources

Reviewer: ```suggestion
page_title: vSphere Virtual Machine - Data Source
```

> sidebar_title: Virtual Machine

Reviewer: ```suggestion
sidebar_title: vSphere Virtual Machine
```

---

> # VMware vSphere Virtual Machine Datasource

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Virtual Machine Data Source
```

Type: `vsphere-virtual_machine`
Artifact BuilderId: `vsphere.virtual_machine`

> This datasource is able to get information about existing virtual machines from vSphere

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This data source retrieve information about existing virtual machines from vSphere
```

and return name of one virtual machine that matches all specified filters. This virtual

> machine can later be used in the vSphere Clone builder to select template.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
machine can be used in the vSphere Clone builder to select a template.
```

## Configuration Reference

### Filters Configuration

**Optional:**

@include 'datasource/virtual_machine/Config-not-required.mdx'

### Tags Filter Configuration

@include 'datasource/virtual_machine/Tag.mdx'

**Required:**

@include 'datasource/virtual_machine/Tag-required.mdx'

### Connection Configuration

**Optional:**

@include 'builder/vsphere/common/ConnectConfig-not-required.mdx'

## Output

@include 'datasource/virtual_machine/DatasourceOutput.mdx'

## Example Usage

> This is a very basic example that connects to vSphere cluster and tries to search
> the latest virtual machine that matches all filters. The machine name is then printed
> to console as output variable.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This example demonstrates how to connect to vSphere cluster and search for the latest virtual machine that matches the filters. The name of the machine is then output to the console as an output variable.
```

> ```hcl
> data "vsphere-virtual_machine" "default" {
>     vcenter_server = "vcenter.example.org"
>     insecure_connection = true
>     username = "administrator@example.org"
>     password = "St4ongPa$$w0rd"
>     datacenter = "AZ1"
>     latest = true
>     vm_tags {
> 	  category = "team"
> 	  name = "operations"
> 	}
> 	vm_tags {
> 	  category = "SLA"
> 	  name = "gold"
> 	}
> 
> }

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```hcl
data "vsphere-virtual_machine" "default" {
    vcenter_server = "vcenter.example.com"
    insecure_connection = true
    username = "administrator@vsphere.local"
    password = "VMware1!"
    datacenter = "dc-01"
    latest = true
    vm_tags {
	  category = "team"
	  name = "operations"
	}
	vm_tags {
	  category = "sla"
	  name = "gold"
	}

}
```

locals {

>   vm_name = data.vsphere-virtual_machine.default.vm_name

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  vm_name = data.vsphere-virtual-machine.default.vm_name
```

}

> source "null" "basic-example" {

Reviewer: ```suggestion
source "null" "example" {
```

    communicator = "none"
}

build {
  sources = [

>     "source.null.basic-example"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    "source.null.example"
```

  ]

>   provisioner "shell-local" {
>     inline = [
>       "echo vm_name: ${local.vm_name}",
>     ]
>   }
> }
> 
> 
> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  provisioner "shell-local" {
    inline = [
      "echo vm_name: ${local.vm_name}",
    ]
  }
}
```
```
